1)  Where was the first known lighthouse located?

Egypt--
Greece
Spain
Rome

It was destroyed by invaders and earthquakes in the 1300s.

2)  What is the oldest existing lighthouse in the world?

La Coruna, in Spain--
Boston Light, in Massachusetts
Eddystone Lighthouse, in England
Cordouan Lighthouse, in France

It was built in 20 BC!

3)  Where was the first lighthouse in the USA built?

Boston, Massachusetts--
New York, New York
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Baltimore, Maryland

THE FIRST LIGHTHOUSE IN AMERICA was at Boston on Little Brewster Island (1716).  The original tower was destroyed by the British and eventually reconstructed in 1784.

4)  Where was the first lighthouse, owned, and operated by the federal government, built in the USA?

Sandy Hook, New Jersey
Baltimore, Maryland
Erie, Pennsylvania
Cape Henry, Virginia --

The Cape Henry Lighthouse is the first federally funded public works project of the newly formed United States government. It was authorized by George Washington and overseen by Alexander Hamilton.

5)  Where is the tallest lighthouse in the USA located?

Cape Hatteras, North Carolina --
Alcatraz Island, California
Baltimore, Maryland
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

The lighthouse at Cape Hatteras was moved and rebuilt in 1870.  The original tower only stood at 90 feet high, however, after the expansion it became 196 feet tall!

6)  Which state in the USA currently has the most lighthouses?

Michigan --
Massachusetts
Maryland
North Carolina

Michigan currently has the most with 124 lighthouses.

7)  True or False:  Lighthouse keeping was limited to men-only until the 1960s because it was considered too dangerous.

True
False --

Lighthouse keeping was one of the first U.S. government jobs available to women in the 19th century.  The majority of women lighthouse keepers saved lives, not only indirectly by keeping their lamps and fog horns operating, but also directly by rescuing people from the treacherous waters of the Great Lakes. They took their job very seriously and rose to the challenges of lighthouse keeping with strength and determination.

8)  What was the first lighthouse in the USA to be lit by an electricity?

Ellis Island, New York --
Baltimore, Maryland
Sandy Hook, New Jersey
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

THE FIRST AMERICAN LIGHTHOUSE TO USE ELECTRICITY was the Statue of Liberty in 1886.

9)  Where is the most powerful lighthouse in the USA?

Charleston, South Carolina --
Sandy Hook, New Jersey
Cape Henry, Virginia
Erie, Pennsylvania

The most powerfull lighthouse in the Western Hemisphere is the Sullivan Island Light in Charleston, SC.  It originally had 28 million candelas (candlepower) but the light was actually too dazzling and  the power was lowered to 1.2 million candelas.  It could still be seen over 26 nautical miles (48 km; 30 mi)

10)  Lighthouses are constructed from all of the following materials except:

Aluminum
Brick
Concrete
Fiberglass --

Lighthouse depots were built around the country to service lighthouses. All supplies were shipped to the lighthouse depots from where the supplies were shipped to the various lighthouses. The largest lighthouse depot was on Staten Island, New York.

11)  How many keepers does a lighthouse typically have?

1-5 --
6-10
11-15
15-30

Only one to five keepers will man a light station.  It is a very important job that is much revered by seafaring captains and crew.

12)  What is the maximum range of a lighthouse light at sea level?

18.4 miles --
12.9 miles
8.7 miles
28.2 miles	

While the intensity of the light can vary greatly depending on the weather and atmospheric conditions, the maximum range at sea level is limited by the curvature of the Earth.

13)  True or False:  Every lighthouse currently in operation in the United States is automated.

True 
False --

All *but one* lighthouses in the United States are automated.  Because Boston Light is the oldest station in the United States, Congress has declared that this lighthouse always be a staffed station. 

14)  Where is the oldest currently active lighthouse in the United States?

Sandy Hook, New Jersey --
Cape Henry, Virginia
New York, New York
Baltimore, Maryland

It was first lit in 1764 - it remains active to this day. 

15)  Where is the newest lighthouse in the USA?

Baltimore, Maryland
Alcatraz Island, California
Erie, Pennsylvania
Sullivans Island, South Carolina --

The newest U.S. lighthouse is the Charleston Light on Sullivans Island, South Carolina, completed in 1962.

16)  Which American lighthouse was the most expensive to build?

Cape Hatteras 
Minot's Ledge
Boston Harbor
St. Geroge's Reef --

The St. George's Reef Lighthouse, in California, took 10 years to construct, at a cost of $715,000.

17)  Which lighthouse was the tallest and largest ever built?


 Cape Hatteras Lighthouse
 Pharos of Alexandria ---
 St. Georges Reef Lighthouse
 Portland Head Lighthouse

The Pharos of Alexandria, built in about 280 B.C. is considered one of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World.  It was estimated to be over 330 feet tall.  Unfortunately it was badly damaged by earthquakes between AD 956 and 1323, and became an abandoned ruin.
